### End systems
End systems are systems like a computer that are connected to the internet through communication links and packet switches. End systems access the internet through ISPs (Internet Service Providers). Another word for end systems is hosts, which can be divided into to two categories: clients and servers. Clients are phones and computers while servers reside in data centers.

### Packet switches
Routers and link-layer switches.
The sequence of communication links and packet switches traversed by a packet are called a route or path.

### Protocols
A protocol defines the format and the order of messages exchanged between two or more communicating entities, as well as the actions taken on the transmission and/or receipt of a message or other event. End systems packet switches and other pieces of the internet run protocols that control the sending and receiving of information like TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) and IP (Internet Protocol) 

### RFCs Requests For Comments
Are general guidelines to ensure there is a certain standard used for networking. Examples include TCP, IP, HTTP (web), SMTP (e-mail).

### Socket interface
The socket interface is a set of rules that the sending program must follow so that the Internet can deliver the data to the destination program.

### Types of broadband digital access
1. DSL (Digital Subscriber Line)
2. Cable.

Since DSL is usually obtained from the same company that provides wired phone access. This means the line carries both data and traditional telephone signals simultaneously and therefore is encoded at different frequencies:
1. 50 kHz to 1MHz band high-speed downstream channel
2. 4 kHz to 50 kHz medium-speed upstream channel
3. 0 to 4 kHz ordinary two-way telephone channel
This enables the single DSL link to appear as three separate links and can therefore simultaneously be used, which is called frequency-division multiplexing.

Cable instead uses the cable television infrastructure. Since both fiber and coaxial cable are used in this system it is referred to as HFC (hybrid fiber coax). Cable is shared so speed can vary depending on the people using the same cable. A collission problem can occur where if two modems try to send data to the same neighbourhood at the exact same time, the packets can be corrupted. Therefore a protocol ensures this doesn't happen. FTTH (Fiber To The Home) is a new concept where fiber goes directly to each home allowing for multiple gigabit speeds.

### Guided media vs. unguided media
With guided media, the waves are guided along a solid medium, such as a fiber-optic cable, a twisted-pair copper wire, or a coaxial cable. With unguided media, the waves propagate in the atmosphere and in outer space, such as in a wireless LAN or a digital satellite channel. 

### Guided media types
A twisted-pair copper wire is one communication link. UTP (Unshielded Twisted Pair) is usually used for computer networks in a building where the speed depends on the thickness of the wire and the distance between the receiver and transmitter.

Coaxial cable are two copper conductors that are concentric instead of parallel, with special insulation and shielding they can achieve higher speeds. Coaxial cable can be used as a shared medium.

An optical fiber is a thin, flexible medium that conducts pulses of light, with each pulse representing a bit. It is immune to eletromagnetic interference, are hard to tap and have very low signal attenuation.
### Unguided media types
Radio channels carry signals in the electromagnetic spectrum. They are an attractive medium because they require no physical wire to be installed, can penetrate walls, provide connectivity to a mobile user, and can potentially carry a signal for long distances. There are three categories:
1. Very low distance (1-2 m)
2. Local area (10-300 m)
3. Wide area (tens of kilometers)

A communication satellite links two or more Earth-based microwave transmitter/receivers, known as ground stations. The satellite receives transmissions on one frequency band, regenerates the signal using a repeater (discussed below), and transmits the signal on another frequency. Two types of satellites are used in communications: 
1. Geostationary satellites. They stay above the same spot on the Earth by being in orbit 36000 km above the ground, introduces 280 millisecond delay.
2. Low-earth orbiting (LEO). They rotate around the earth and 
satellites.
###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

###

